📝 Document webhooks (#554)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/webhooks.md

# Webhooks

> Webhooks allow you to know when new changes happen on specific repos or repos belonging to specific users / organizations.

Reviewer: Add "inspirational" or "big picture" sentence like:

> **Webhooks are a foundation for MLOps related features. You can use this to auto-convert models, build community bots, or build CI/CD for your datasets or Spaces…**

> Webhooks allow you to know when new changes happen on specific repos or repos belonging to specific users / organizations (not just your repos, but any repo!).

Author: ```suggestion
Webhooks allow you to react when new changes happen on specific repos or repos belonging to specific users / organizations (not just your repos, but any repo!).
```

?

You can configure the webhooks in your [settings](https://huggingface.co/settings/webhooks).

> You can watch repo changes or community events. If you watch all repos belonging to a user or an organization, you can also receive events for repo creation.

Reviewer 2: "receive events" => what does this mean?

Author: I changed the paragraph

## Webhook payloads

> You will receive payloads through the `POST` method on the specified URL, in JSON format.

Reviewer 3: Maybe clearer this way? not sure

```suggestion
After registering a webhook, you will be notified of events via an `HTTP POST` call on the specified URL. The payload is encoded in JSON.
```

> After registering a webhook, you will be notified of events via an `HTTP POST` call on the specified URL. The payload is encoded in JSON.

Reviewer: yes i think it's a reasonable assumption (that the reader knows what a POST is)

That being said we could add a sentence at the top explaining what a Webhook is :

maybe something like:

> Webhooks are a way for you or your code to programmatically receive automated messages sent from the Hub when something happens.

To determine the nature of the event, you can look at the `event` and `domain` fields in the payload.

You can check the last payloads sent in the activity tab of the webhook page, as well as replay webhooks.

### Event & Domain

> The top-level properties `repo` and `domain` are always specified and used to determine the nature of the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top-level properties `event` and `domain` are always specified and used to determine the nature of the event.
```

`event` can take one of the following values: 

> - `"create"`

Reviewer 2: What about "duplicated" ? Guess that only exists for spaces yet no?

Author: It's a `"create"` event

- `"delete"`
- `"update"`
- `"move"`

> `domain` specifies the domain of the event. It can be one of the following values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`domain` can be one of the following values:
```

- `["repo"]` - Global events on repos: create, delete, move
- `["repo", "content"]` - Events on the content of the repo, like new commits or tags. Triggers on new pull requests as well due to the newly created reference / commit.
- `["repo", "config"]` - Events on the config: update space secrets, update settings, update DOIs, disabled or not, ...
- `["community", "discussion"]` - Creating a discussion or pull request, updating the title or status

> - `["community", "discussion", "comment"]` - Creating, updating, hiding a comment

Reviewer: I would switch both ie. put domain before event

> ⚠️ **You should consider that any event on a more granular domain is an `"update"` on the encompassing domains.** ⚠️

Reviewer: or use the word `hierarchical` which kinda means this, IMO

> ⚠️ **You should consider that any event on a more granular domain is an `"update"` on the encompassing domains.** ⚠️

Reviewer: or separate by dots and then it will be more obvious :) (and people can still filter on prefixes)

For example, any event on `["community", "discussion", "..."]` is an `"update"` on `["community", "discussion"]`.

> This is important in case more granularity is added to the domains by Hugging Face. For example if the domain domain `["repo", "config", "doi"]` is added, it would be accompanied by an `"add"` event when DOIs are created. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is important in case more granularity is added to the domains by Hugging Face. For example if the domain `["repo", "config", "doi"]` is added, it would be accompanied by an `"add"` event when DOIs are created. 
```

Don't understand this either

> If you follow the rule above, your application will treat any event on `["repo", "config", "doi"]` as an `"update"` on `["repo", "config"]`, and will not break if Hugging Face adds more granularity to its domains.

Reviewer: is this clear for now for instance @osanseviero @nateraw? but let's ask more widely to team members)

> If you follow the rule above, your application will treat any event on `["repo", "config", "doi"]` as an `"update"` on `["repo", "config"]`, and will not break if Hugging Face adds more granularity to its domains.

Reviewer 2: what "rule"? "**You should consider that any event on a more granular domain is an `"update"` on the encompassing domains.** ⚠️" ? I'd maybe even link to it or write **"Rule: "** above

Reviewer 2: Ok but understand the principle now :sweat_smile: 

Think using the words "subset/superset" of would help here. Maybe: "any event on a domain will automatically trigger on event on all subsets of this domain. E.g.: ..."

### Repo

> In the current version of webhooks, the top level property `repo` is always specified, as events can always be associated to a repo. Sample payload:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the current version of webhooks, the top level property `repo` is always specified, as events can always be associated to a repo. For example, consider the following payload:
```

```json
"repo": {
	"type": "model",
	"name": "some-user/some-repo",
	"gitalyUid": "583c43bd0009f32d976f788446d5010ed6ea4af0c6d0235358378cb56d312f2b",
	"id": "6366c000a2abcdf2fd69a080",
	"private": false,
	"url": {
		"web": "http://huggingface.co/some-user/some-repo",
		"api": "http://huggingface.co/api/models/some-user/some-repo"
	},
	"headSha": "c379e821c9c95d613899e8c4343e4bfee2b0c600",
	"tags": [
		"license:other",
		"has_space"
	],
	"author": {
		"id": "61d2000c3c2083e1c08af22d"
	}
}
```

> `headSha` is only sent when the domain starts with `"repo"`, it's not sent on community events.

Reviewer 2: Sorry what are community events? Any event on a domain that includes "community"?

Reviewer: it's events on discussions and PRs, ie. in the "Community" tab

maybe that "community events" is not very clear, and Discussions and PRs is more explicit. cc @gary149 too

### Discussion

> The top level property `discussion` is specified on community events. Its `isPullRequest` property is a boolean indicating if the discussion is also a pull request. Sample payload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top level property `discussion` is specified on community events. Its `isPullRequest` property is a boolean indicating if the discussion is also a pull request (on HF, a PR is a special case of a Discussion). Sample payload:
```
+possibly link to the Hub PR & Discussion doc

```json
"discussion": {
	"id": "639885d811ae2bad2b7ba461",
	"title": "Hello!",
	"url": {
		"web": "https://huggingface.co/some-user/some-repo/discussions/3",
		"api": "https://huggingface.co/api/models/some-user/some-repo/discussions/3"
	},
	"status": "open",
	"author": {
		"id": "61d2000c3c2083e1c08af22d"
	},
	"isPullRequest": true,
	"changes": {
		"base": "refs/heads/main"
	}
	"num": 3
}
```

### Comment

The top level property `comment` is specified when a comment is created, including on discussion creation, or updated. Sample payload:

```json
"comment": {
	"id": "6398872887bfcfb93a306f18",
	"author": {
		"id": "61d2000c3c2083e1c08af22d"
	},
	"content": "This adds an env key",
	"hidden": false,
	"url": {

> 		"web": "http://huggingface.co/some-user/some-repo/discussions/4#6398872887bfcfb93a306f18"

Reviewer 4: api also? https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/package_reference/hf_api#huggingface_hub.HfApi.comment_discussion

Author: There is no api call to GET an individual comment at the moment

	}
}
```

## Webhook secret

You can associate a secret to your webhook in two ways:

> - Updating the url of the webhook to add your secret as a query parameter.

Reviewer 2: I would have to see an example here in order to use it. Would be stuck here otherwise

> - Setting the secret on the webhook. It will be sent as a `X-Webhook-Secret` HTTP header on every request.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Setting the secret on the webhook. It will be sent as an `X-Webhook-Secret` HTTP header on every request.
```

# Webhooks

> Webhooks are a foundation for MLOps related features. You can use this to auto-convert models, build community bots, or build CI/CD for your datasets or Spaces…

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Webhooks are a foundation for MLOps related features. You can use this to auto-convert models, build community bots, or build CI/CD for your models, datasets, and Spaces.
```

> Webhooks are a foundation for MLOps related features. You can use this to auto-convert models, build community bots, or build CI/CD for your models, datasets, and Spaces.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Webhooks are a foundation for MLOps related features. You can use them to auto-convert models, build community bots, or build CI/CD for your models, datasets, and Spaces.
```

> They allow you to react when new changes happen on specific repos or repos belonging to specific users / organizations (not just your repos, but any repo!).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
They allow you to listen for new changes on specific repos or repos belonging to particular users/organizations (not just your repos, but any repo!).
```

> You can configure the webhooks in your [settings](https://huggingface.co/settings/webhooks):

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
You can create new webhooks and edit exiting ones in your webhooks [settings](https://huggingface.co/settings/webhooks):
```

![Settings of an individual webhook](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/hub/webhook-settings.png)

> You can watch repo changes and discussions / pull requests / comments. You can even use a Space to react to webhooks!

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You can watch repo changes, discussions, and Pull requests and comments. You can even use a Space to react to webhooks!
```

> You can watch repo changes, discussions, and Pull requests and comments. You can even use a Space to react to webhooks!

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Webhooks can watch for repos updates, Pull requests, discussions, and new comments. It's even possible to create a Space to react to your webhooks!
```

<!-- Todo: add a link to a guide with a real example -->

## Webhook Payloads

> After registering a webhook, you will be notified of events via an `HTTP POST` call on the specified URL. The payload is encoded in JSON.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
After registering a webhook, you will be notified of new events via an `HTTP POST` call on the specified URL. The payload is encoded in JSON.
```

> You can check the last payloads sent in the activity tab of the webhook page, as well as replay webhooks:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
You can view the history of payloads sent in the activity tab of the webhook settings page, it's also possible to replay past webhooks for easier debugging:
```

![image.png](https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1671034300077-61d2f90c3c2083e1c08af22d.png)

> As an example, here is the full payload when a pull request is opened:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
As an example, here is the full payload when a Pull request is opened:
```

    "private": false,
    "url": {
      "web": "https://hugginface.co/gpt2",
      "api": "https://hugginface.co/api/models/gpt2"
    },
    "owner": {
      "id": "628b753283ef59b5be89e937"
    }
  },
  "discussion": {
    "id": "6399f58518721fdd27fc9ca9",
    "title": "Update co2 emissions",
    "url": {
      "web": "https://hugginface.co/gpt2/discussions/19",
      "api": "https://hugginface.co/api/models/gpt2/discussions/19"
    },
    "status": "open",
    "author": {
      "id": "61d2f90c3c2083e1c08af22d"
    },
    "num": 19,
    "isPullRequest": true,
    "changes": {
      "base": "refs/heads/main"
    }
  },
  "comment": {
    "id": "6399f58518721fdd27fc9caa",
    "author": {
      "id": "61d2f90c3c2083e1c08af22d"
    },
    "content": "Add co2 emissions information to the model card",
    "hidden": false,
    "url": {
      "web": "https://hugginface.co/gpt2/discussions/19#6399f58518721fdd27fc9caa"
    }
  },
  "webhook": {
    "id": "6390e855e30d9209411de93b",
    "version": 3
  }
}
```

### Event

The top-level properties `event` is always specified and used to determine the nature of the event.

It has two sub-properties: `event.action` and `event.scope`.

> `event.scope` can take one of the following values:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
`event.scope` will be one of the following values:
```

> - `"repo"` - Global events on repos. Possible values for the associated `action`: `"create"`, `"delete"`, `"update"`, `"move"`.

Reviewer 6: I wonder if a better format for this would be a table with three columns: event.scope value, description, associated actions

> - `"repo.content"` - Events on the content of the repo, like new commits or tags. Triggers on new pull requests as well due to the newly created reference / commit. The associated `action` is always `"update"`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- `"repo.content"` - Events on the repo's content, such as new commits or tags. It triggers on new Pull requests as well due to the newly created reference/commit. The associated `action` is always `"update"`.
```

> - `"repo.config"` - Events on the config: update space secrets, update settings, update DOIs, disabled or not, ... The associated `action` is always `"update"`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- `"repo.config"` - Events on the config: update Space secrets, update settings, update DOIs, disabled or not, etc. The associated `action` is always `"update"`.
```

> - `"discussion"` - Creating a discussion or pull request, updating the title or status (including merging).  Possible values for the associated `action`: `"create"`, `"delete"`, `"update"`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- `"discussion"` - Creating a discussion or Pull request, updating the title or status, and merging.  Possible values for the associated `action`: `"create"`, `"delete"`, `"update"`.
```

> - `"discussion.comment"` - Creating, updating, hiding a comment. Possible values for the associated `action`: `"create"`, `"update"`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- `"discussion.comment"` - Creating, updating, and hiding a comment. Possible values for the associated `action`: `"create"`, `"update"`.
```

More scopes can be added in the future. To handle unknown events, your webhook handler can consider any action on a narrowed scope to be an `"update"` action on the broader scope.

For example, if the `"repo.config.dois"` scope is added in the future, any event with that scope can be considered by your webhook handler as an `"update"` action on the `"repo.config"` scope.

### Repo

In the current version of webhooks, the top level property `repo` is always specified, as events can always be associated to a repo. For example, consider the following value:

```json
"repo": {
	"type": "model",
	"name": "some-user/some-repo",
	"id": "6366c000a2abcdf2fd69a080",
	"private": false,
	"url": {
		"web": "http://huggingface.co/some-user/some-repo",
		"api": "http://huggingface.co/api/models/some-user/some-repo"
	},
	"headSha": "c379e821c9c95d613899e8c4343e4bfee2b0c600",
	"tags": [
		"license:other",
		"has_space"
	],
	"owner": {
		"id": "61d2000c3c2083e1c08af22d"
	}
}
```

`repo.headSha` is the sha of the latest commit on the repo's `main` branch. It is only sent when `event.scope` starts with `"repo"`, not on community events like discussions and comments.

> ### Discussion

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### Discussion and Pull Requests
```

> The top level property `discussion` is specified on community events. The `discussion.isPullRequest` property is a boolean indicating if the discussion is also a pull request (on HF, a PR is a special case of a Discussion). Here is an example value:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The top level property `discussion` is specified on community events (discussions and Pull requests). The `discussion.isPullRequest` property is a boolean indicating if the discussion is also a Pull request (on the Hub, a PR is a special case of a discussion). Here is an example value:
```

> The top level property `discussion` is specified on community events (discussions and Pull requests). The `discussion.isPullRequest` property is a boolean indicating if the discussion is also a Pull request (on the Hub, a PR is a special case of a discussion). Here is an example value:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The top-level property `discussion` is specified on community events (discussions and Pull requests). The `discussion.isPullRequest` property is a boolean indicating if the discussion is also a Pull request (on the Hub, a PR is a special type of discussion). Here is an example value:
```

```json
"discussion": {
	"id": "639885d811ae2bad2b7ba461",
	"title": "Hello!",
	"url": {
		"web": "https://huggingface.co/some-user/some-repo/discussions/3",
		"api": "https://huggingface.co/api/models/some-user/some-repo/discussions/3"
	},
	"status": "open",
	"author": {
		"id": "61d2000c3c2083e1c08af22d"
	},
	"isPullRequest": true,
	"changes": {
		"base": "refs/heads/main"
	}
	"num": 3
}
```

### Comment

The top level property `comment` is specified when a comment is created (including on discussion creation) or updated. Here is an example value:

```json
"comment": {
	"id": "6398872887bfcfb93a306f18",
	"author": {
		"id": "61d2000c3c2083e1c08af22d"
	},
	"content": "This adds an env key",
	"hidden": false,
	"url": {
		"web": "http://huggingface.co/some-user/some-repo/discussions/4#6398872887bfcfb93a306f18"
	}
}
```

## Webhook secret

> Setting a webhook secret is useful to make sure payloads sent to your webhook handler come from Hugging Face.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Setting a webhook secret is useful to make sure payloads sent to your webhook handler URL are from Hugging Face.
```

If you set a secret for your webhook, it will be sent along as an `X-Webhook-Secret` HTTP header on every request. Only ASCII characters are supported.

<Tip>

> You can also change the URL of the webhook to add a secret to the URL. For example, setting it to `https://example.com/webhook?secret=XXX`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You can also change the URL of the webhook to add a secret to the URL. For example, setting it to https://example.com/webhook?secret=XXX.
```

> You can also change the URL of the webhook to add a secret to the URL. For example, setting it to https://example.com/webhook?secret=XXX.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
It's also possible to add the secret directly in the handler URL. For example, setting it as a query parameter: https://example.com/webhook?secret=XXX.
```

This can be helpful if accessing the HTTP headers of the request is complicated for your webhook handler.
</Tip>

## Rate limiting

> Each webhook is limited to 1,000 triggers per 24 hours. You can check the  daily triggers for your webhook in your webhook settings, in the "Activity" tab.

Reviewer 6: Maybe add a link here for the activity tab

Author: not possible - the activity tab is hf.co/settings/webhooks/xxxx/activity , it depends on the individual webhook's id

> Each webhook is limited to 1,000 triggers per 24 hours. You can check the  daily triggers for your webhook in your webhook settings, in the "Activity" tab.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Each webhook is limited to 1,000 triggers per 24 hours. You can view your usage in the Webhook settings page in the "Activity" tab.
```

If you need to increase the number of triggers for your webhook, contact us at website@huggingface.co.

## Debugging webhooks

Go in the activity tab for your webhook, there you will see the list of recent events.

 ![image.png](https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1671035382840-61d2f90c3c2083e1c08af22d.png)
 

> You will see the HTTP status code and the payload of the events. You can replay events too by clicking on the `replay` button!

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
You will see the HTTP status code and the payload of past events. You can replay those events by clicking on the `replay` button!
```

> It is possible to change the url or secret of the webhook and then replay an event; it will send the payload to the updated URL.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
When changing the target URL or secret of a webhook, replaying an event will send the payload to the updated URL.
```
